# Python Based Intepreted Language
Pybil is a programming language developed for educational puporses, it is interpreted using python and it has a syntax similar to Javascript

## History
Pybil was developed in 2021 during my graduation course in Computer Science, at the class of "Construção de Interpretadores" (Interpreter Construction).

## Syntax
Pybil syntax is similar to javascript, for instance the following code calculates the Fibonacci sequence
```javascript
var x;
var y = 1;
var z = 1;
for(;x < 1000;){
    x = y+z;
    y = z;
    z = x;
};
```

## Limitations
Pybil is capable of doing:
- Variable Declarations
- Basic Mathematical Operations
- Conditional jumps (if statements)
- Repetition (for loops)

Pybil currently only supports the numerical value types Integer and Float.

## Realism
Since the language was developed for educational purposes and the focus was on the compiler, some parts of the project were sacrificed in order to keep the overall scope simple.

The code generated by compiling Pybil is not actual Machine Code, but rather a representation of machine code that is interpreted by a "Vitual processor" built using a python script.

The terms "Registers", "Memory" used in the Virtual Processor are loosely related to physical registers and memory used by processors, once again, the focus of the project is on the compiler and not in a true to life replication of a processor.

## Inner workings
The compiling process works as follows:
1. The Lexical Analizer parses the code and generate a list of tokens. This list is saved in a file called `code.t`.
2. The Sintax Analizer retrieves the token list and validate if they are built according to the language Sintax. Code that has been properly validated is added to the program syntactic tree. The resulting Tree is saved to `arvore.json` and the Symbol Table is saved to `symbol_table.json`
3. The 3ACAssembler reads the syntactic tree and builds 3AC (3AddressCode) based on the values and types of the leafs. Resulting code is stored into `code.o`
4. The final code is interpreted and run by the Virtual Processor